# Capture a Transaction

    Given a transaction spent on a Common Cents card
    When the transaction is captured raw
    And we have a transaction amount, date, and memo
    Then the system links the transaction to an Entity
    And creates an AccountingEvent
    And an AccountingType is assigned to the AccountingEvent

## Getting the Transaction

At this point, I am unclear if we'll have an API we can query, or if a web hook will send the information to one of our API endpoints. We have that endpoint defined right now that should be able to capture the minimal information and use that.

## Assigning an AccountingType

We will assume the ledger is really basic in the beginning. It's not as important that we have a perfectly accurate accounting system, but that any budgets or KPIs we sell are organized in accounts. This means cash and household expense could be the only two accounts and the accounting type can be a simple, generic one.

As the sophistication of the budgeting tool grows, so too will the accounting system. For example, if housing needs to be budgeted differently than regular expenses, the accounting type assigned needs to recognize this. For simple improvements, simple rules or conditions can be written. If it gets more complicated, a machine learning model may be used.

## Recognizing a Transaction

If we get a raw feed on a transaction, we will get both transactions and preauthorizations. The preauthorizations will expire. Sometimes the amount is estimated, sometimes it is for $1.

We have a few choices for dealing with these timing issues:

* We can recognize every event and estimate what will happen next, creating adjusting events when we know precisely what's happening.
* We can record the event and assign a pending type
* We can conditionally apply strategies, based on what we know so far.

Most likely, this is something that changes as we refine the budgeting services, learn more about customers, and adjust for the potential risk of getting a transaction wrong.

## Relationships

* An AccountingEvent belongs to an AccountingType
* The AccountingEvent belongs to an Entity, which belongs to a Referencable, a polymorphic relationship to either an Organization or a Person. None of the user onboarding has been designed, but it's open ended to fit just about any schema.
* An AccountingEvent belongs to a Period, defaulting to the current month.
* An AccountingEvent belongs to a Currency, defaulting to USD.
* An AccountingEvent has a JournalEntry, meaning the foreign key is recorded on the JournalEntry.
