# Building a Journal Entry

    Given an AccountingEntry with an AccountingType assigned
    And the conversion reference on the AccountingType references a Lambda function
    Then the system applies the Lambda function to form the JournalEntry and AccountingEntries
    And the system stores the records
    And the system updates the AccountingEntry to reference the JournalEntry
    
## Coordinating the Transformation

The journal entry, transaction, needs to reference the correct accounts, potentially split the transaction into a more complicated transaction (incuding fees and taxes, say). What we use is the reference field on the AccountingType to find the correct Lambda function. This creates a few fragile parts of the system:

* When a Lambda function is created or updated, it needs to be coordinated with the AccountingType.
* The Lambda function must work or log problems, we don't have a system designed to recover from failed transformations.
* The parameters from AccountingType to Lambda function need to be consistent.
* Accounts, Period, and other database tables will need to be in place.

This system shouldn't cause too many problems if we have just a few types that are more or less stable. If not, we can design a safer service that doesn't introduce problems when things go wrong.

## Relationships

* A JournalEntry has 2 or more AccountingEntries. Debits and credits balance. If there are more than 2, it is a split transaction.
* A Journal Entry belongs to a Currency, defaulting to USD.
* A JournalEntry belongs to a Period, defaulting to the current month.
* A JournalEntry belongs to an AccountingEvent, which belongs to an AccountingType, the reason for the transaction.
* The AccountingEvent belongs to an Entity, which belongs to a Referencable, a polymorphic relationship to either an Organization or a Person. None of the user onboarding has been designed, but it's open ended to fit just about any schema.
